---
title: IT blog 2 and 3
layout: post
author: joshua.handy
permalink: /it-blog-2-and-3/
source-id: 1_FImDfR0iKlhASpQv-C9GLBWtvFGIkhvHjxyQe9BqgM
published: true
---
**Lesson 2.5**

This blog is last weeks blog actually as I didn't have anything to write about last lesson as I did little work in the lesson in fear of breaking my code. The lesson I learned was to always try even if it goes wrong / perseverance is key. This lesson which was last lesson we went over some of the thing we did last lesson and the things that I missed, things like the drop box which is to help spelling errors and make writing easier.

The drop box is basically a tool to the right of the box that allows you to choose a select list of instructions of names or code so can be very handy. The problem with spelling is that say for instance you put a space after the variable e.g TG_  

(_ = space) that would tell the computer something totally different from just TG as it relies on binary and a space bar in binary is equivalent to a value. 

To create this drop box you need to create a new range and include the coordinates of where the range will cover e.g new code B3, B7 you then must select the area where you want the drop list and and right click scroll down to data validation and add in your range.

Some things I did wrong were getting stuck on the ranges as I forgot about the coordinates and cost me some time searching for what I could've done wrong as the range covered the whole spreadsheet! I also didn't add some of my the drop list choices in correctly as it showed that some of my thing costed made profit margin was 0. 

Next time I will go slower through certain tasks e,g ranges as I missed some vital info which cost me some time in the lesson.

**Lesson 3**

Today we mainly did what we did last lesson however touched on some functions like =concatenate (B5"-”...  which we were then told that '"‘ means a string like a string of data so we're then told that something like Print (9) = Print number 9, however Print (“9”) mean Print letter 9 as 9 is a binary number (just has a binary number meaning) e.g 9 = 0b1001.

We also had to make sure our VLOOKUP was working e.g = VLOOKUP(A5, 5 , false) which means calculate 'Vertical lookup' on A5 on horizontal row 5 on the order form sheet. I may know that but I'm not sure what the false means so I will ask next lesson. We also filled in the boxes with color to make them easier to read as it was hard to catch a quick glimpse as it all looked the same.

At times I got a bit stuck and had to ask for some assistance when i hadn't tried very much but also I remembered to take notes which massively helped however spent a bit too much time writing neatly not quickly so lost a few bits of info causing me to ask for help to fill in those gaps with other people's help.

Next lesson I will ask our teacher about what the false means in the VLOOKUP and will be faster at taking notes

