---
title: IT blog 6
layout: post
author: joshua.handy
permalink: /it-blog-6/
source-id: 1ai0Yd0wVPnR26Q6dEBDquSEHHsjTI0kn4LPNKom7lPo
published: true
---
In this lesson we began by discussing how important IT can be at GCSE and A level as many numerous jobs are looking for those who did. We were told the average age for a student leaving University was £19,000 or £21,000 if you're lucky, however somebody who works in the IT industry can leave university earning £35,000 and £60,000 if you're very lucky! This shows just how important IT can be in later life.

We also continued on google sheets and went through how many different jobs could require spreadsheets of different kinds. Most businesses use spreadsheets, it could help in later life and can make things a lot quicker. Our aim of the lesson was to create a discount code that when a code is entered it gives one of 4 different discounts discount 1, 0% discount 2, 1.5% discount 3, 2% and discount 4 2.5% (Discount code 1 Is '0' as no code or the wrong code has been inserted. We had to make this discount code so that when a code is inserted is will create the percentage of what's been ordered e.g £100 with a discount of 2% it will show  £-2 and then subtract the number (2) from the £100 leaving the total at £98.

I also learned that if you enter a previous percentage into a box and then change it it may change it back to the original percentage. To stop it putting the wrong number in you must use insert, then number and select the percentage this will restart the cell stoping it from changing it.

I struggled at the start of the lesson to get going however I quickly made progress after a bit of guidance and tried many methods. This resulted in me not being able to finish the lessons work. 

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vSFRUbQj7V3XnrNvbAVzgu4GqF1EdWhulRFGPvw6ARHohWVu2T5vh1-agnzzwrBRhxWzLoHWFSSlWGc/pubhtml?widget=true&amp;headers=false"></iframe>
