---
title: IT blog 7
layout: post
author: joshua.handy
permalink: /it-blog-7/
source-id: 1bKCOvG7_dDDFV-LSv0GMv3ZKciu3LMJ6jJCDs8ykA6Q
published: true
---
Today we were mainly learning about supercomputers and how powerful they are. A supercomputer costs millions unlike your standard which costs hundreds! A supercomputer also has to be kept in what is basically a giant fridge as it is so hot! Super computers are not only much more expense than your regular computer they are also so much more powerful and use things like floats - floating point operations and strings - data etc… your Sverige computer talks about mb (Megabytes) per second and if you have a very fast computer Gb (gigabytes). The scale ranges like this;

* Kilobytes (KB) 

* Megabytes (MB) - KB x1000

* Gigabytes (GB)  - MB x1000

* Terabytes (TB)  - GB x1000

* Flop - TB x1000

* Petaflops - Flops x1000

This insane computer can complete 93000000000000000 floating point operations in a second. You may be wondering what they use this amazing computer for, the computer is mainly used to hack passwords. This computer can hack a 8 digit password in 1/13 of a second at most and a 36 character password would take a matter of minutes as it would take 2300935930000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 or 96 to the power of 36 Floating point operations and the computer as an do 93000000000000000 every second!! This computer not only is incredibly powerful it is also huge like small Library seize with around 5 rows each 5 , or so meters long by  a roughly 1 metre, with 5 of these it takes up a lot of space.

This lesson I didn't do much wrong as we were mainly listening not working at our computers however I still had some points tops improve on as I didn't ask many questions and put much input in. I also wasn't sure how to add my sheets to my blog and had to ask for help.

Next time I will ask more questions and answer more questions.

