---
title: Year 9: IT blog 1
layout: post
author: joshua.handy
permalink: /year-9:-it-blog-1/
source-id: 1GgBgmQFpna1dfIeJ78BhUp-NtPr9mLWofnWU_OGl6ig
published: true
---
Today we began on sheets learning how to create **spreadsheets** which is a great tool for later life and can be used in any job in any role. We began by selling Tacos and soon learnt that = means a sum is coming up (**calculate**). We also found multiple ways to add this to make equations easier e.g = SUM (A1+ A2+A3… etc and it would add the units together **automatically**. We then moved onto creating our own. To do this we learned the hardest thing we will need to in google sheets and we're told that if we could do this we would be well on our way! The code was =VLOOKUP(B5, CarPrice,2,false) for me but it would change depending on the context **V Look Up** means **vertical axis** so you would be changing the vertical axis however it is actually on the **horizontal**! Not only this but we now know that even the slightest of mistakes e.g a space even after you've typed the word in would lead to errors in code.

Today I made the mistake of **coordinating my colors** as after we were told that this would not help and made it harder for us to read as we focused on the colors. We were not supposed to use the colors unless it beifited the **data**. I also struggled with the v look up and had to ask a friend about what some of the numbers signify. 

Next time I will make sure I remember how to do the VLOOKUP by practicing it at home and will not focus on the colors but the split of the colors. 

